---
imageSrc: "../../images/profile-picture.jpg"
imageAlt: "Eric Moran Profile Picture"
---

I applied to 7 jobs today. I really appreciate the Easy Apply feature LinkedIn offers, it makes applying a breeze. I do wish more job postings included whether they are remote, and whether they are for entry level positions or something more senior.

I started the groundwork for a project as practice on backend development. The idea is to make requests to public APIs on the web, and to then display that data on the front end. These vary greatly in the data they provide, such as cat pictures, fish facts, currency exchange rates, famous quotes, and weather information. Some are restricted to users who have registered and are given a unique API key. These are a security measure intended to prevent malicious characters from abusing the service by making a massive amount of requests.

After lunch I worked more on Codewars problems. This one involved finding the single unique element in an array. The instructions said to focus on efficiency, as the arrays could be large. My approach involved creating a set from the input array. Sets only allow unique values, so this was a quick and easy method to find the unique values. Once I had my set, I spread out the values into an array, so I could easily access each number. I then filtered the original array, keeping those elements that matched the first number from the set. This filtered array had two possible lengths: 1 if it contained the unique number, and more then 1 if it contained the repeated numbers. If the length was 1, then the first number from the set was the unique number, otherwise the unique element was the second number from the set.

Before class, I requisitioned a ClearDB MySQL database through Heroku. I copied the connection URL into my environment variables in the tarot card project. The environment variables are a way to keep information hidden; you wouldn’t want just anyone connecting to your database. In class we configured the connection with the URL and deployed to fly.io. We had to do some troubleshooting - I had named some files in lowercase, but imported them with an uppercase character, which was not a problem on my machine, but it caused the build to fail on the deployment site. I tend to use the auto-import feature on VS Code a lot, so I assumed all my imports were OK. We also found out that I somehow installed the MySQL npm package globally on my machine. This allowed me to connect to my local databases, but caused issues building, as the package was not included in the list of packages to install. These were all tiny “I’ll know for next time” errors that were easily fixed. My tarot card journal app is now deployed 😁

https://lnkd.in/gj39JFcF

Photo by <a href="mailto:alexakleahy@gmail.com" target="_blank" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" aria-label="External Link"><u>Alexa Leahy</u></a>
