---
imageSrc: "../../images/profile-picture.jpg"
imageAlt: "Eric Moran Profile Picture"
---

Today I worked on the project where I’ve been keeping my Codewars solutions. I save each solution as its own Javascript file. The idea for this project is to showcase each solution with a link to the problem on the website. Codewars also has a public API where I can fetch additional information about the individual problems, as well as display a user’s stats. I think it would be fun to have a page to compare visitors’ stats against mine.

After lunch I worked more on Codewars problems. The first one was interesting, so I dove in. The problem is to rearrange a string and put the words in a certain order. Each word has a number in between its characters, and the goal is to rearrange the entire string so the numbers are in order: "is2 Thi1s T4est 3a" becomes "Thi1s is2 3a T4est". I split the string on empty spaces, creating an array of strings. Next, I made an array with placeholders to eventually hold the words so I could keep them in order. The trick here was to be able to make an array whose length matched the number of words I needed to insert. I then iterated over the array of words, and within that loop, iterated over the number of characters. To test if the character was a number, I called the "toLowerCase" and "toUpperCase" function on each character. Letters will have non-matching results, and the results for a number would match, since we don’t have uppercase and lowercase numbers. Within the innermost loop, I have context of the word and the place it needs to go, so I was able to easily use the "Array.splice" method to remove the placeholder and switch it out for the word. Another interesting problem I worked on involved finding the largest result given 3 numbers, and being able to place + \* and () around them without moving them. At first, this seemed difficult because I was thinking about how many cases there are involved. Then I remembered that the "Math.max" function will return the largest number, regardless of the amount of numbers you ask it to look at. All I had to do was pass all the cases in and let the function do the heavy lifting.

In class today my instructor and I looked for React website templates. I’ve built them from scratch, but wanted to see my content in someone else’s template. I thought it would also be good practice working with someone else’s code as I really haven’t gotten the chance to do that yet. We found a template we like, and started working on adapting components to work with the content I have in my portfolio site.

Photo by <a href="mailto:alexakleahy@gmail.com" target="_blank" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" aria-label="External Link"><u>Alexa Leahy</u></a>
