---
imageSrc: "../../images/profile-picture.jpg"
imageAlt: "Eric Moran Profile Picture"
---

I was in Maine last week and over the weekend for my cousin’s wedding. We stayed at the Harding family farmhouse, which I would definitely recommend. It was nice to reconnect with our cousins and others we haven’t seen in a few years.

I worked on more Codewars problems today. The first one involved adding sentence numbers to each sentence in an array. I used the array.map method and provided the index to the callback function to keep track of the sentence numbers. After fixing a silly off-by-one error, I completed the problem. The next one involved filtering an array to only those elements whose length is exactly 4, an easy application of the array.filter method. My third problem was interesting, and exposed me to a mathematical concept I hadn’t encountered in my math classes. The problem asked for a function to determine a number’s persistence. Persistence is defined as the number of times you need to multiply each digit in the number together before you end up with a single digit number. I solved this by splitting the digits of the given number into an array, reducing the array by multiplying the digits together, and incrementing a counter. If the result of multiplying was a single digit number, I had it return the count, and if not, then it called the recursive part of the function to do the work another time. When reading up on persistence, I found it interesting that there are no numbers less than 10^20000 whose persistence is greater than 11. That is, you would only need to multiply the digits together at most 11 times before reaching a single digit result. For reference, numbers slightly less than 10^20000 have 20,000 digits.

Today in class my instructor and I finished implementing a feature allowing users to sort their journals by a date range in the daily tarot journal app. After we finished this, we moved on to adding mobile responsive bootstrap classes to all the pages. The next steps are to requisition a database and then deploy the app!

Photo by <a href="mailto:alexakleahy@gmail.com" target="_blank" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" aria-label="External Link"><u>Alexa Leahy</u></a>
