---
imageSrc: "../../images/profile-picture.jpg"
imageAlt: "Eric Moran Profile Picture"
---

Today I started building an Angular app by following along with a video on Youtube. The instructor describes what’s going on very well and the pace is just right. I make sure to make notes and questions I still have as I go along. I prefer this tutorial better than the other one I had started. Having examples of when, where, and why certain things are done is more helpful than being told everything I can do.

I’m really liking this app tutorial. Things are very well explained so I can accurately make notes as I go along. I’m seeing the similarities and differences in how Angular and React accomplish the same task. When filling out a form, React uses what's called a “React controlled input” to update and keep track of the value in the input. The data is held in state, and when there is a change, a change event is emitted. This change event triggers a call to a state setting function to update the state. This state change triggers a re-render, which will now show the value of the input, which is the same as the newly updated state. Angular accomplishes the same idea using the ngModel directive, which is a way to display live updates to data held in the component’s business logic. From what I’ve seen so far, this outcome is a lot easier to achieve in Angular than React. I only need to add the ngModel directive to the input tag just like any other attribute. Then I make sure it links up with the data in the component script file.

The app is coming along nicely, and I’m understanding how things are working as I go along. Once it is done, it will be great reference material for future Angular projects.

Photo by <a href="mailto:alexakleahy@gmail.com" target="_blank" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" aria-label="External Link"><u>Alexa Leahy</u></a>
