---
imageSrc: "../../images/profile-picture.jpg"
imageAlt: "Eric Moran Profile Picture"
---

I had an interview today! I was asked basic questions about my background and what I like about being a developer. Then we moved on to the technical part. I was asked to go over some of my previous technical code examples, so I chose some of the Codewars solutions and walked them through my logic and thought process. They then asked me to do one live and I jumped in. The problem gives an array of exact size arrays, each filled with either an X or an O. The goal is to give the coordinates of the X, but only if there is a single X. If the array is empty, or if there are multiple X’s, then return an empty array. My first solution worked! Then they asked if I could improve it with the assumption that the arrays are very very large. They work with very large data sets, and inefficient code can take an impossibly long time to complete. On my second try I was able to code a condition to exit early if a second X is found. We then talked about the other solutions posted online, and discussed how the top solution does not account for all edge cases, whereas mine does. The top solution was also very inefficient compared to mine. All in all, I think I did well in my first interview!

Today I continued the work from class yesterday on the new portfolio site. The whole site is organized and laid out in a different manner than I’m used to. The project utilizes Gatsby, which is another single page app framework, similar to React, which is what I’m used to. I’m not sure why template creators chose to do certain things the way they did. They use GraphQL which is a way to query data, to essentially import information for certain page components. In my other projects I’ve accomplished the same task by simply importing the JSON data or file and parsing that. I’m sure it has its use cases, but I think implementing it in a portfolio site is a bit of overkill. That being said, I’ve only seen it for two days, so I can’t really make an accurate assessment.
I did manage to find where the about me section goes, so I filled in my info. I also removed some button links to social media I don’t have; baby steps!

I spent a few hours this morning before the interview on code problems, so I took a break in the afternoon. My instructor messaged me and told me there was a power outage in his area. We were able to chat for around 10 mins before his backup ran out, so it was an early day today.

Photo by <a href="mailto:alexakleahy@gmail.com" target="_blank" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" aria-label="External Link"><u>Alexa Leahy</u></a>
